Adding readme file (#20)
jv-feb24-group-project2/accommodation-booking-app: README.md

## 🏡 Welcome to Accommodation Booking App 🏠
*****
![img_house.jpg](img%2Fimg_house.jpg)
*****

> This app is a booking accommodation application where people can advertise the places they want to rent out and where people looking for accommodations can search for them.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This app is a booking accommodation application where people who are looking for accommodations can search for them.  
```
In our case managers are employees. Not some users. We don't have time to make it as we discussed before

For Administrators: Provides comprehensive tools for inventory management, order booking, and real-time updates, making it easy to manage rental properties.

The Telegram Notifications Service is an integral part of our platform, providing users with instant notifications about booking confirmations, payment statuses, new property listings, and important updates directly through Telegram. This service enhances user experience by keeping them informed and engaged without the need to constantly check the app.   

Built with Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data JPA, and Springdoc OpenAPI, Accommodation Booking App offers a secure and robust backend, perfect for supporting the operations of rental properties.
### 🛠️ Technologies and Tools Used
- Spring Boot: For building the application framework.
- Spring Security: To handle authentication and authorization.
- Spring Data JPA: For database interactions using JPA.
- Spring Web: For building web-based applications with Spring MVC.
- Swagger: For API documentation and testing.
- Hibernate: As the ORM tool.

> - H2: For the relational database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- MySQL: For the relational database.
```

|  POST |  /api/accommodations | MANAGER/ADMIN | /api/accommodations  |
|  PUT |   /api/accommodations/{id}|     ADMIN          |Update a specific accommodation   |
| DELETE  | /api/accommodations/{id}  |  ADMIN             | Delete a specific accommodation  |
|   |   |               |   |

- ##### Amenity 

|  HTTP method  |  Endpoint |  Role  | Description  |
|---|---|---|---|
| GET  |  /api/amenities | MANAGER/ADMIN  |  Get all accommodations' amenities |
| GET  | /api/amenities/{id}  | MANAGER/ADMIN  |  Get an amenity by id |
|  POST | /api/amenities  |  MANAGER/ADMIN | Add a new amenity  |
|  PUT  |/api/amenities/{id}   |  MANAGER/ADMIN | Update a current category  |
| DELETE   |  /api/amenities/{id} |   MANAGER/ADMIN|  Delete a current category |

- ##### Payment 
| HTTP method | Endpoint  | Role  | Description  |
|-------------|---|-------|---|
| GET         |  /api/payments | USER/MANAGER |  Get payments history of certain customer |
| GET         |   /api/payments/{id}|    USER/MANAGER   | Get the payment by id  |
| GET         |  /api/payments/create-session/{bookingId} |     USER  | Init payment sessions for booking transactions  |

> | GET         | /api/payments/success/  |    USER    |  Redirection after successfully processing of payment |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| GET         | /api/payments/success/  |    ----    |  Redirection after successfully processing of payment |
```

> | GET         |/api/payments/cancel/   |   USER     | Redirection after unsuccessfully processing of payment  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| GET         |/api/payments/cancel/   |   -------   | Redirection after unsuccessfully processing of payment  |
```

> | GET         |  /api/payments/create-session/{bookingId} |     USER  | Init payment sessions for booking transactions  |
> | GET         | /api/payments/success/  |    USER    |  Redirection after successfully processing of payment |
> | GET         |/api/payments/cancel/   |   USER     | Redirection after unsuccessfully processing of payment  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| GET         |  /api/payments/create-session/{bookingId} |  ----  | Init payment sessions for booking transactions  |
| GET         | /api/payments/success/  |    ----    |  Redirection after successfully processing of payment |
| GET         |/api/payments/cancel/   |   ----     | Redirection after unsuccessfully processing of payment  |
```

|-------------|--------------------|---|-----------------------------------------|
| POST        | /api/bookings      | USER   | Creat new accommodation bookings        |
| GET         | /api/bookings/my   | USER  | Get booking history of certain customer |
| GET         | /api/bookings/{id} |  USER | Get a current booking                   |
| GET         |  /api/bookings                    | MANAGER   |       Retrieves bookings based on user ID and their status                                   |
| PUT         |/api/bookinUSERgs/{id}            | USER/MANAGER  | Update a current booking                |
| DELETE      |/api/bookinUSERgs/{id}            | USER  | Delete a current booking                |

  
- #####  Swagger Documentation
    - the API documentation at http://localhost:8080/swagger-ui.html.
    - You can explore all available endpoints, their descriptions, request parameters, and response schemas.
      **[Use Postman collection](https://rent-masters.postman.co/workspace/Accommodation-Booking-APP~2719fff1-5c95-44a8-8913-0a604ac879f4/overview)**
      

### 🌟 Getting Started
##### Prerequisites

> - Java 17+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Java 21+
```
As I remember for this project we use java 21

- Maven 4+
- MySQL 8+
- Docker
##### Installation
To run the application locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone the Repository
```
git clone https://github.com/jv-feb24-group-project2/accommodation-booking-app.git 
cd accommodation-booking-app
```
2. Configure environment variables:
   Create a .env file in the project root directory and populate it with the following environment variables:
```env
- DB_USERNAME=your_db_username  
- DB_PASSWORD=your_db_password  
- DB_LOCAL_PORT=3306
- DB_NAME=easy_stay
- STRIPE_API_KEY=sk_test_00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000

- BOT_USERNAME=your-bot-username
- BOT_TOKEN=your-bot-token
- BASE_URL=your-base-url
- JWT_SECRET=topsecret2024topsecret2024topsecret2024topsecret2024
```
4. Install dependencies and build the project:
```
mvn clean install
```
5. Run the application:
```
mvn spring-boot:run
```
The server will start on http://localhost:8080.

##### Using Docker
1. Build the Docker image:
```
docker build -t accommodation-booking-app .
```
2. Run the Docker container:
```
docker run -d -p 8080:8080 --name accommodation-booking-app accommodation-booking-app

> ```

Reviewer: I think we will use docker-compose-up. But NOT 100% sure

Built with Spring Boot, Spring Security, Spring Data JPA, and Springdoc OpenAPI, Accommodation Booking App offers a secure and robust backend, perfect for supporting the operations of rental properties.
### 🛠️ Technologies and Tools Used
- Spring Boot: For building the application framework.
- Spring Security: To handle authentication and authorization.
- Spring Data JPA: For database interactions using JPA.
- Spring Web: For building web-based applications with Spring MVC.
- Swagger: For API documentation and testing.
- Hibernate: As the ORM tool.
- MySQL: For the relational database.
- Liquibase: For database schema versioning and management.
- Docker: For containerizing the application.
- Maven: For project management and dependency management.  

### 🚀 Current Functionalities
- ##### Authentication
| HTTP method |Endpoint | Description |
|----|----------|----------|
| POST |/api/auth/register | Register a new user |

> | POST   | /api/auth/login |Authenticate a user  |

Reviewer 2: GET | /api/users/me | All |  Get user profile information
PUT | /api/users/me | All | Update user profile information
PUT | /api/users/3/role | ADMIN | Update user roles
